tools/bpf/bpftool/Documentation/bpftool.rst, before:

================
BPFTOOL
================
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
tool for inspection and simple manipulation of eBPF programs and maps
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 8

SYNOPSIS
========

	**bpftool** [*OPTIONS*] *OBJECT* { *COMMAND* | **help** }

	**bpftool** **batch file** *FILE*

	**bpftool** **version**

	*OBJECT* := { **map** | **program** | **cgroup** | **perf** | **net** | **feature** }

	*OPTIONS* := { { **-V** | **--version** } | { **-h** | **--help** }
	| { **-j** | **--json** } [{ **-p** | **--pretty** }] }

	*MAP-COMMANDS* :=
	{ **show** | **list** | **create** | **dump** | **update** | **lookup** | **getnext**
	| **delete** | **pin** | **event_pipe** | **help** }

	*PROG-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **dump jited** | **dump xlated** | **pin**
	| **load** | **attach** | **detach** | **help** }

	*CGROUP-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **attach** | **detach** | **help** }

	*PERF-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **help** }

	*NET-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **help** }

	*FEATURE-COMMANDS* := { **probe** | **help** }

DESCRIPTION
===========
	*bpftool* allows for inspection and simple modification of BPF objects
	on the system.

	Note that format of the output of all tools is not guaranteed to be
	stable and should not be depended upon.

OPTIONS
=======
	-h, --help
		  Print short help message (similar to **bpftool help**).

	-V, --version
		  Print version number (similar to **bpftool version**).

	-j, --json
		  Generate JSON output. For commands that cannot produce JSON, this
		  option has no effect.

	-p, --pretty
		  Generate human-readable JSON output. Implies **-j**.

	-m, --mapcompat
		  Allow loading maps with unknown map definitions.

	-n, --nomount
		  Do not automatically attempt to mount any virtual file system
		  (such as tracefs or BPF virtual file system) when necessary.

	-d, --debug
		  Print all logs available, even debug-level information. This
		  includes logs from libbpf as well as from the verifier, when
		  attempting to load programs.

SEE ALSO
========
	**bpf**\ (2),
	**bpf-helpers**\ (7),
	**bpftool-btf**\ (8),
	**bpftool-cgroup**\ (8),
	**bpftool-feature**\ (8),
	**bpftool-gen**\ (8),
	**bpftool-iter**\ (8),
	**bpftool-link**\ (8),
	**bpftool-map**\ (8),
	**bpftool-net**\ (8),
	**bpftool-perf**\ (8),
	**bpftool-prog**\ (8),
	**bpftool-struct_ops**\ (8)

Commit message:

tools: bpftool: Print optional built-in features along with version
Bpftool has a number of features that can be included or left aside
during compilation. This includes:

- Support for libbfd, providing the disassembler for JIT-compiled
  programs.
- Support for BPF skeletons, used for profiling programs or iterating on
  the PIDs of processes associated with BPF objects.

In order to make it easy for users to understand what features were
compiled for a given bpftool binary, print the status of the two
features above when showing the version number for bpftool ("bpftool -V"
or "bpftool version"). Document this in the main manual page. Example
invocations:

    $ bpftool version
    ./bpftool v5.9.0-rc1
    features: libbfd, skeletons

    $ bpftool -p version
    {
        "version": "5.9.0-rc1",
        "features": {
            "libbfd": true,
            "skeletons": true
        }
    }

Some other parameters are optional at compilation
("DISASM_FOUR_ARGS_SIGNATURE", LIBCAP support) but they do not impact
significantly bpftool's behaviour from a user's point of view, so their
status is not reported.

Available commands and supported program types depend on the version
number, and are therefore not reported either. Note that they are
already available, albeit without JSON, via bpftool's help messages.

v3:
- Use a simple list instead of boolean values for plain output.

v2:
- Fix JSON (object instead or array for the features).

Signed-off-by: Quentin Monnet <quentin@isovalent.com>
Signed-off-by: Alexei Starovoitov <ast@kernel.org>
Acked-by: Andrii Nakryiko <andriin@fb.com>
Link: https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/20200909162500.17010-2-quentin@isovalent.com
(cherry picked from commit 82b8cf0acc7bfe7b247e5ddc4417f6146d74c0b8)
Signed-off-by: Andrii Nakryiko <andriin@fb.com>

tools/bpf/bpftool/Documentation/bpftool.rst, after:

================
BPFTOOL
================
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
tool for inspection and simple manipulation of eBPF programs and maps
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 8

SYNOPSIS
========

	**bpftool** [*OPTIONS*] *OBJECT* { *COMMAND* | **help** }

	**bpftool** **batch file** *FILE*

	**bpftool** **version**

	*OBJECT* := { **map** | **program** | **cgroup** | **perf** | **net** | **feature** }

	*OPTIONS* := { { **-V** | **--version** } | { **-h** | **--help** }
	| { **-j** | **--json** } [{ **-p** | **--pretty** }] }

	*MAP-COMMANDS* :=
	{ **show** | **list** | **create** | **dump** | **update** | **lookup** | **getnext**
	| **delete** | **pin** | **event_pipe** | **help** }

	*PROG-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **dump jited** | **dump xlated** | **pin**
	| **load** | **attach** | **detach** | **help** }

	*CGROUP-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **attach** | **detach** | **help** }

	*PERF-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **help** }

	*NET-COMMANDS* := { **show** | **list** | **help** }

	*FEATURE-COMMANDS* := { **probe** | **help** }

DESCRIPTION
===========
	*bpftool* allows for inspection and simple modification of BPF objects
	on the system.

	Note that format of the output of all tools is not guaranteed to be
	stable and should not be depended upon.

OPTIONS
=======
	-h, --help
		  Print short help message (similar to **bpftool help**).

	-V, --version
		  Print version number (similar to **bpftool version**), and
		  optional features that were included when bpftool was
		  compiled. Optional features include linking against libbfd to
		  provide the disassembler for JIT-ted programs (**bpftool prog
		  dump jited**) and usage of BPF skeletons (some features like
		  **bpftool prog profile** or showing pids associated to BPF
		  objects may rely on it).

	-j, --json
		  Generate JSON output. For commands that cannot produce JSON, this
		  option has no effect.

	-p, --pretty
		  Generate human-readable JSON output. Implies **-j**.

	-m, --mapcompat
		  Allow loading maps with unknown map definitions.

	-n, --nomount
		  Do not automatically attempt to mount any virtual file system
		  (such as tracefs or BPF virtual file system) when necessary.

	-d, --debug
		  Print all logs available, even debug-level information. This
		  includes logs from libbpf as well as from the verifier, when
		  attempting to load programs.

SEE ALSO
========
	**bpf**\ (2),
	**bpf-helpers**\ (7),
	**bpftool-btf**\ (8),
	**bpftool-cgroup**\ (8),
	**bpftool-feature**\ (8),
	**bpftool-gen**\ (8),
	**bpftool-iter**\ (8),
	**bpftool-link**\ (8),
	**bpftool-map**\ (8),
	**bpftool-net**\ (8),
	**bpftool-perf**\ (8),
	**bpftool-prog**\ (8),
	**bpftool-struct_ops**\ (8)
